
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# JRSS2020

Code from my 2020 publication in Journal of the Royal Statistical
Society. The publication itself is Open Access can be found
[here](https://rss.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/rssa.12520), and
can also be found in this repository.

This is a simple repository that contains code to reproduce the data
handling steps and the analysis of my paper with Ben Wilson, published
in Journal of the Royal Statistical Society in 2020. The initial data
handling steps were placed in a DO-file as they were performed by Joshua
Perleberg, who was my Student Assistant at the time. The data handling
steps that I did myself were subsequently done in R, and the analysis as
well. The data can be accessed from the [UK Data
Archive](https://beta.ukdataservice.ac.uk/datacatalogue/series/series?id=200001);
you will have to request access, but this is free for most
non-commercial researchers.

Most of the work on this project was performed in 2017. We were among
the first authors to show how to do a mediation analysis with the
parametric g-formula, but unfortunately the review process took so long
that other authors beat our publication to the punch. Fortunately, the
editors of the journal still allowed us to make the claim that we were
the first (see the publication).

Fortunately, our paper has another methodological novelty as well: we
were the first to perform a sensitivity analysis for unmeasured
confounding with the g-formula, and detail the steps in this
publication.

The paper can be referred to as follows:

Bijlsma MJ, Wilson B. Modelling the socio-economic determinants of
fertility: a mediation analysis using the parametric g-formula. Journal
of the Royal Statistical Society: Series A (Statistics in Society) 2020;
183(2): 493-513.
